# Log files

As KAPE operates, it generates several log files in different locations. This section will discuss
those logs and what they contain.

When KAPE starts, the current date and time are recorded. This value is used in naming the log files. The format for the timestamp is **yyyy-MM-ddTHH_mm_ss_fffffff** and will be reflected in each of the log files discussed below. This allows you to group the log files up across multiple runs of KAPE.

## Console log
The console log contains everything that was displayed in the command window while KAPE is running. A high-resolution timestamp along with the message level and message is displayed. This is the primary log that serves to preserve the actions KAPE took while operating. The --debug and --trace switches affect the level of detail that ends up in this log. This log will end up in --tdest and/or --mdest unless an error happens. In that case, it is written to the same directory where kape.exe is located.

## Copylogs
KAPE generates two files related to file copies. The file names contain the timestamp mentioned above, along with the value of --target that was provided on the command line. 

For example, if --target EvidenceOfExecution were used, the following logs would be created:

* 2018-09-03T14_51_21_7565737_EvidenceOfExecution_copylog.csv
* 2018-09-03T14_51_21_7565737_EvidenceOfExecution_copylog.txt


## *_copylog.txt
This is a text file that contains a high-resolution timestamp along with details about every file _ACTUALLY COPIED_ from --tsource. In other words, this log will not show details about files skipped based on deduplication, etc. (those would show up in the Console log if --debug is enabled). Details include source path, destination path, source SHA-1, source created, modified, and last accessed timestamps.

## *_copylog.csv
This file also contains the details of the various files copied from –tsource, but in comma-separated value format. This is useful for loading into Timeline Explorer, Excel, or similar. 

Details include:
* CopiedTimestamp: The date and time when the file copy operation was logged
* SourceFile: Full path to source file. In the case of files originating from VSCs, this will reflect an originating directory of ‘VSS’ followed by the VSC # and path where the file was found
* DestinationFile: Full path to the destination file. This will have a base directory of --tdest, along with the drive letter or VSC name where the file was found
* FileSize: The size of the file, in bytes
* SourceFileSha1: The SHA-1 value of the source file
* DeferredCopy: If true, the file was locked and subsequently read via a raw disk read
* CreatedOnUtc: File created timestamp
* ModifiedOnUtc: File modified timestamp
* LastAccessedOnUtc: File last accessed timestamp
* CopyDuration: How long the file copy operation took. Format is hours:minutes:seconds.fffffff

